---
layout: post
title: Outsourcing Our Minds
subheading: What we should be cautious about when we give our tasks to machines
author: Aman
categories: Future
tags: Future, Writing Practice, Week 1
sidebar: []
---

The purpose of technology is to make up for our limitations. 

In our early days, these limitations were physical. We can’t cut a vegetable with our fingers, so we made knives to do it for us. We can’t carry a rock with our own arms, so we built carts to wheel it around. 

Somewhat recently, we started using technology to make up for our mental limitations as well. We use books to hold more knowledge than we can remember, and we use computers to perform more calculations than we could ever do manually. 

We’re now using technology to make up for our social limitations. We don’t trust each other, so we use blockchain to make sure everyone is playing fair. We don’t often interact with people outside our bubbles, so we use TV and social media to feel more empathy. 

Is this a bad thing? No. Is it entirely unproblematic? Also no. 

We humans are built with a great many flaws. The products of natural selection don’t align perfectly with our highest aspirations, and we’re fortunate to have the capacity to create tools to help us reach those aspirations anyway. Thanks to technology that fills in where we’re lacking, the future can still be bright for us--even though we’re hardwired to hate and lie and believe conspiracy theories and think irrationally. 

But we must be cautious not to lose track of the burdens we place on technology. We can easily forget that the vast majority of our collective knowledge is stored and retrieved on a very fragile system. What would we do if we lost access to that information bank? 

In our present state, we could probably recover. Between us, we hold a copy of much of that knowledge in our brains, and we still know how to reproduce it in another form. Even if we don’t remember all of it, we are still familiar with how to create that information. If our law books were lost, we could write new ones. If we somehow forgot the equations of physics, we could perform experiments again.

The situation might not be as workable if this happened a few hundred years from now. We still have social memory of the not-so-distant past (or fading present) where all information was either in the brain or on paper, and where we had to create laws and perform experiments ourselves. Many generations from now, that social memory might not exist--we might not remember how to do things without technology.

Now imagine a similar situation occurs for trust. Right now, we know how to build and maintain trust in society. We have structures of authority that vet all information and confirm its truth. Newer technologies are offering to decentralize that authority, opening up more opportunities for individuals and creating a more inclusive information economy. 500 years from now, if we no longer knew how to establish credibility without this technology, would we still be able to trust each other?

We should always be cognizant of our flaws, and maintain an understanding of manual ways of overcoming them. Even if we can comfortably rely on sophisticated computing to cover up for our mistakes, we don’t want to take the risk of being unprepared if that technology ever disappears. Building technology to help us coexist has been, and will continue to be, immensely beneficial for our flourishing, but we need to be sure that we don’t forget how to coexist without it.

